NARRATOR:
Somewhere, hidden
amongst thorny brambles,
is a little kingdom
of elves and fairies.
Everyone who lives here
is very, very small.
I'm Ben Elf.
[BLOWS HORN]
[BARKING]
And I'm Princess Holly.
[BARKS]
[GIGGLES]
Come on, let's play.
Wait for us.
[BOTH GIGGLING]
[NARRATOR READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
[♪♪♪]
NARRATOR:
Today's adventure starts
at the Little Castle.
[BEN READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
Happy birthday.
ALL: Happy birthday, Daddy.
Hm.
What is it, darling?
I don't want a birthday.
You don't want a birthday?
No.
Why on earth not?
I don't like my birthday.
Every year,
we make a big song and dance
about the fact
that I'm getting older.
But we always celebrate
your birthday.
The elves hold a big party
with music, dancing
and fireworks.
It's so much fun.
Yes.
Well, today is going
to be different.
No birthday party.
[MIMICS DRUM ROLL]
Happy birthday,
Your Majesty.
Here's your cake.
Shush, Nanny Plum.
Sorry there aren't enough
candles.
There should be one
for every year, but we'd need--
Stop going on
about how old I am!
But, darling, you're only--
And no cake! Take it away.
No cake?
I've baked loads of cakes
for the party.
I don't care.
No cakes and no birthday!
[STOMPING]
Oh. I suppose
I'll just have to eat
all the cakes myself.
Why doesn't Daddy want
a birthday?
He doesn't like
getting older.
Who does?
I do.
NANNY: Oh, well.
I'd better cancel
the fireworks.
[♪♪♪]
I can't wait
for the King's birthday party.
Me too.
We've got a really big firework
to let off.
Yes, it's as big
as a carrot.
[LAUGHS]
And there'll be music,
dancing and cakes.
Everyone loves King Thistle's
birthday party.
Firework delivery
for King Thistle's
birthday party.
Oh, Ben.
There's not going to be
a party.
BOTH:
No party?
King Thistle has decided
he doesn't like getting older.
Who does?
I do.
So there won't be
any fireworks now.
Or music.
Or dancing.
[SIGHS]
We'd better take
this delivery
back to the elf tree.
Can I stay here with Holly?
Okay.
Bye, Dad.
See you later.
[MUNCHING]
If we could cheer
King Thistle up,
then maybe
he'd want a party.
Good idea, Ben.
I could do a magic spell
to cheer the King up.
Really? Will that work?
Of course.
But how do you cheer people up
with magic?
I'll show you.
Abracadabra abraca-dup
Make Queen Thistle
All cheered up
[GIGGLES]
Oh, I see.
Easy-peasy.
[LAUGHING]
Look how happy the Queen is.
Make it stop.
Oh, dear.
Mommy can't stop laughing.
[LAUGHING]
Please.
[CONTINUES LAUGHING]
Oh. That was horrible.
I'm not sure about that.
You were very happy.
Yes. A little too happy.
Maybe we won't use magic
to cheer the King up.
Perhaps we could cheer
King Thistle up another way.
How?
My dad always likes talking
about when he was a boy.
Does he?
So if we ask your dad
about when he was young,
that might cheer him up.
Good idea, Ben.
[SIGHS]
Hello, Daddy.
Hello, Holly.
Hello, Ben.
Dad?
Mm?
What was it like
when you were a boy?
Why would you want to know
that?
We're interested.
Yes.
I can't remember,
it was a long time ago.
You must remember something.
Well... Ha, ha.
Yes. When I was a boy--
Were there dinosaurs?
Dinosaurs?
Yes.
Dinosaurs
with big, pointy teeth.
No.
How old do you think I am?
What was it like
before the telephone
was invented?
Did you live in a cave,
Daddy?
No, I didn't.
And that's quite enough
questions
about when I was young,
thank you.
But we're interested.
Well, I'm not.
Now, please leave me alone.
[SIGHS]
All right.
Daddy seems more sad
than ever.
Yes.
Now, we'll never have
a party.
What about if we asked
the Wise Old Elf for advice?
Yes. He's very wise.
And he's old.
He'll know what to do.
Hello, Holly. Hello, Ben.
BOTH:
Hello, Wise Old Elf.
Have you heard?
King Thistle's not having
a birthday party.
Ah, yes.
After all our hard work
arranging everything.
And the Elf Band had composed
a special song too.
Listen.
ALL:
♪ Oompah, oompah ♪
♪ Old King Thistle
Is a very old king ♪
♪ And he's one year
Older today ♪
♪ Old King Thistle
Is old and gray ♪
♪ Happy, happy
Happy birthday ♪
That's very nice.
But Daddy doesn't want
to have his birthday
because he thinks
he's too old.
King Thistle's not old.
I've got T-shirts older
than him.
Really?
I'm sure the King just needs
cheering up.
We've tried that.
It didn't work.
So I suppose there won't be
a party after all.
No music.
No dancing.
No fireworks.
Hm.
The King likes surprises,
doesn't he?
Yes.
We could give the King
a surprise party.
But he doesn't want
a birthday party.
Ah, but it won't be
There'll be music and dancing
and fireworks,
and no one will say
the word birthday.
Gosh, that's very clever.
It's brilliant.
Come on, Ben.
We need to get ready
for the party.
[BOTH GIGGLING]
Calling all elves.
We need to arrange
the King's party.
ALL:
Right-o!
[ALL BLOWING HORNS]
Hello, Daddy.
I've got something for you.
What's this?
Open it and see.
[♪♪♪]
I said no birthday cards.
It's not a birthday card.
"This is just a card to say
what a lovely daddy you are."
Oh, thank you, Holly.
And here's a present.
It's not a birthday present,
is it?
No, King Thistle.
Are you sure?
Sure.
A toy robot!
Thank you, Ben.
I made it myself.
[WHIRRING]
And here's your cake.
It's not a birthday cake,
is it?
Absolutely not.
This is just
an ordinary cake.
The taste
is completely different.
Oh, good.
[MUNCHES]
Delicious.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
Mm. Cards, presents, cake.
And this is nothing to do
with my birthday?
ALL:
No.
Well, I suppose
it's not really a birthday then.
As long as the Elf Band
doesn't turn up.
[♪♪♪]
There's one more
surprise, Daddy.
Oh, I love surprises.
You have to close your eyes.
Okay.
[♪♪♪]
You can open your eyes...
Now!
ALL: Surprise!
[BAND PLAYING]
I said, no birthday party!
It's not a birthday party,
darling.
It's just a surprise party.
Oh, well, then I suppose...
Happy birth--
[ALL GASP]
I mean, congratulations,
Your Majesty,
on being such
an excellent king.
Well done!
Oh. Thank you.
And now,
for the giant firework!
It's as big as a carrot.
[HISSING]
ALL:
Ooh!
[ALL GASPING]
Ha, ha! I love fireworks.
And now, Your Majesty,
the Elf Band will sing
a special song in your honor.
ALL:
♪ Oompah, oompah ♪
♪ Old King Thistle
Is a very old king ♪
♪ And he's one year
Older today ♪
♪ Old King Thistle
Is old and gray ♪
♪ Happy, happy
Happy birthday ♪
Uh, of course,
the song isn't actually
about you.
ALL:
Oh, no, no, no.
It's about a different king,
Your Majesty.
A king far away from here.
Who's birthday it is today.
In that case,
it was a very nice song.
ALL:
Hooray!
[TAPPING THEN BAND PLAYING]
Come on, Daddy, let's dance.
Ho, ho!
This is fun!
[WHISPERING]
Happy birthday, Daddy.
Ho, ho. Thank you, Holly.
NARRATOR:
Today's adventure starts
at the Little Castle.
[BEN READS ONSCREEN TEXT]
[DOORBELL RINGS]
Oh, Strawberry,
isn't it a lovely morning?
Yes, Nanny Plum.
Hi, Holly.
Hi, Strawberry.
Have you come to join us
for wand practice?
No. I came to see
if Holly wanted to play.
But now you can join us
for wand practice.
Uh, but--
I don't know
where my wand is.
You're holding it.
Oh, yes, so I am.
Come along.
You know how much fun
wand practice is.
[BOTH SIGH]
Right.
Now you can practice
lifting rocks with magic.
Up and down.
BOTH:
Very good.
Keep it going.
Up and down.
[BOTH SIGH]
Hi, Holly.
Hi, Strawberry.
Do you want
to play football?
We can't.
We have to do
wand practice.
BOTH:
Up and down.
Aren't you supposed to be gentle
with your wands?
It's okay,
wands are very strong.
You don't want
to break them.
Don't be silly.
They never break.
Show him, Holly,
hit your wand
on that rock.
Okay.
[CRACKS]
[HOLLY GASPS]
Oh, dear.
Holly! Strawberry!
How's wand practice going?
Uh, not very well.
Holly's broken her wand.
NANNY:
How did that happen?
I was waving it very gently,
and--
She bashed it on a rock.
That wasn't very clever.
Sorry, Nanny.
Not to worry.
We'll just get it mended.
Hooray!
Are you going to mend it
with magic, Nanny?
Oh, no. I can't mend it.
Why not?
Wands make magic,
but magic can't make wands.
It's like chickens and eggs.
Chickens make eggs,
but eggs don't make chickens.
But eggs do make chickens.
Whatever.
The important thing is,
I can't mend wands by magic.
So who can mend it?
The elves that made it.
BOTH:
Elves?
Do elves make wands?
Of course, they do.
Everyone knows that.
Elves are very good
at making wands.
BOTH:
And we're elves.
[BLOW HORNS]
[ALL GIGGLE]
To the Elf Factory.
[♪♪♪]
HOLLY:
But, Nanny, wands are magic,
and elves don't do magic.
Elves don't use
the wands, Holly,
they just make them.
Good morning.
Can I help you?
Um, I've broken my wand.
She bashed it on a rock.
One moment, please.
[PA CHIMES]
Wise Old Elf.
Wise Old Elf,
please report to reception
immediately.
Ah, Princess Holly.
What can I do for you?
Holly's broken her wand.
She bashed it on a rock.
WISE OLD ELF:
I see.
Not to worry.
We'll just mend it.
Follow me.
Now, you will need
these hard hats.
Ooh!
[ALL GIGGLING]
We'll be taking the train.
ALL:
Ooh!
All aboard!
Hold tight, everyone.
[HORN HONKS]
We're going deep down.
How deep down?
Level 500.
The wand factory.
[ALL SCREAMING]
[ALL LAUGHING]
Level 500?
It's the deepest level
there is.
Why is the wand factory
so deep underground?
Because wands are magic.
And elves don't like magic.
So we built the wand factory
as deep underground as possible.
ALL:
Whee!
NANNY:
Aah!
[ALL LAUGHING]
Oh, my tummy.
Now, what's wrong
with your wand?
It broke itself.
She bashed it on a rock.
Yes, yes.
But we need to find out
exactly what's wrong
with your wand.
[BEEPING]
ALL:
Ooh!
WISE OLD ELF:
The x-ray shows
it needs a new stick
and a cog service.
[BEEPING]
This way.
This is the stick house,
where we grow wooden sticks
for wands.
But there are loads of sticks
just lying around in the meadow.
Ah, but the stick for a wand
must be specially grown.
And made from the right type
of tree.
Correct, Nanny Plum.
The wood for my wand comes
from a plum tree
because I am Nanny Plum.
The wood for your wand, Holly,
should come from a...
Holly tree.
Exactly.
So, Strawberry,
what tree does your wand
come from?
Um, it must come
from a strawberry tree.
Oh.
Let's see how that feels.
[RUSTLING]
Hm. It's a bit big.
It just needs
a little trim.
This stage of wand repair
is a mixture of woodwork
and gardening.
Is my wand mended now?
Not yet,
Princess Holly.
We need to mend
the head.
Follow me.
This is the clockwork room.
ALL:
Ooh!
Spinnyicklepoo clamp,
please.
Spinnyicklepoo clamp.
Woooble cone.
It all looks
very complicated.
Mending a wand head
is a mixture of surgery
and watch making.
ALL:
Aah!
The Fidge-Fudge-Rotter-Whistle
stick.
Whistle stick.
[BLOWING HORN]
[TOLLING]
Hm. Interesting.
[BLOWS HORN]
[DOORBELL RINGS]
That doesn't sound right.
[SQUEAKING]
[TINKLING]
Very good.
ALL: Hooray!
Can we go home now?
WISE OLD ELF:
Not yet, Nanny Plum.
Holly's wand needs testing.
To the testing room.
The wand testing room.
It is the safest place
to do magic in the kingdom.
Why do you need a special room
to do magic?
We don't want the magic
leaking out
and causing trouble.
Where's the fun in that?
Magic is not meant
to be fun.
Safe and sensible magic
is what we do here.
What's he doing?
He's setting up
the testing robot
to do a magic spell.
HOLLY:
What's that?
BEN:
Lemonade.
We're going to test
the wand,
by turning the lemonade
into something else.
Is it going to turn
into a golden coach?
Or a monster with a hundred eyes
and three legs?
[LAUGHS]
Wait and see.
[CLANGING]
[BEEPING]
[ALARM BLARING]
[TINKLING]
WISE OLD ELF:
The lemonade has turned
into water.
[WHIRRING]
Why would you want
to do that?
That's not magic.
It's very sensible magic.
It's rubbish magic.
Well,
what would you turn it into?
How about this?
Aah!
You did magic
outside the test room.
Oh. It's a lemon.
I meant to turn it
into a frog.
Nanny Plum.
My wand's not working right.
It's rattling.
Oh, I see what you mean.
That doesn't sound right.
Hm.
When did you last have
this wand serviced?
Ten years ago.
[SQUEAKING]
Wands should be serviced
once a year.
[SQUEAKING]
Here, try that.
[TINKLING]
[CROAKS]
Yes, that's much better.
Nanny.
You turned the Wise Old Elf
into a frog.
[CROAKS]
So I did.
Are you going to turn him
back again?
[SIGHS]
I suppose I'll have to.
Silly Old Elf
Back to yourself
[CROAKS]
Very good.
Your wand seems
to be working perfectly.
Don't wait 10 years
before getting it
serviced again.
Yes, Wise Old Elf.
Sorry.
Thank you for mending
my wand, Wise Old Elf.
You're welcome,
Princess Holly.
Hee, hee. It's good
to have you back again, wand.
I promise to take special care
of you from now on.
STRAWBERRY:
Yes.
Don't bash it on a rock.
I won't.
[ALL GIGGLE]
[TINKLING]
[♪♪♪]